README.md, before:

# Symfony 4 skeleton with Virtual Kernel for multiple applications

### Name-based Virtual Kernel

The term "Virtual Kernel" refers to the practice of running more than one application (such as `api.example.com` and `admin.example.com`) on a single project repository. Virtual kernels are "name-based", meaning that you have multiple kernel names running on each application. The fact that they are running on the same physical project repository is not apparent to the end user.

In short, each kernel name corresponds to one application.

### Application-based Configuration

You need to replicate the structure of one application for `config`, `src`, `var` directories. It should look like this:

    ├── config/
    │   ├── admin/
    │   │   ├── packages/
    │   │   ├── bundles.php
    │   │   ├── routes.yaml
    │   │   ├── security.yaml
    │   │   └── services.yaml
    │   ├── api/
    │   ├── site/
    │   ├── packages/
    │   └── bundles.php
    ├── src/
    │   ├── Admin/
    │   ├── Api/
    │   ├── Site/
    │   └── VirtualKernel.php
    ├── var/
    │   ├── cache/
    │   │   ├── admin/
    │   │   │   ├── dev/
    │   │   │   └── prod/
    │   │   ├── api/
    │   │   └── site/
    │   └── logs/

Next, making use of the `Kernel::$name` property you can stand out the application to run and dedicated project files (`var/cache/<name>/<env>/*`):

 * `<name><Env>DebugProjectContainer*`
 * `<name><Env>DebugProjectContainerUrlGenerator*`
 * `<name><Env>DebugProjectContainerUrlMatcher*`
 
This will be the key of the performance as each application has by definition its own DI container file, routes and configuration.

### Keeping one entry point for all applications

    ├── public/
    │   └── index.php

Following the same filosofy of Symfony 4, whereas environment variables decides which development environment and debug mode should be used to run your application, you can to use a new `APP_NAME` environment variable to set the application to execute. 
For now, playing with your applications and PHP's built-in Web server prefixing the new application environment variable:

    $ APP_NAME=admin php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t public
    $ APP_NAME=api php -S 127.0.0.1:8001 -t public   

### Executing commands per application

    ├── bin/
    │   └── console.php

Use `--kernel`, `-k` option to run any command for one specific app:

    $ bin/console about -k=api
    
Or if you prefer, use environment variables on CLI:

    $ export APP_NAME=api
    $ bin/console about                         # api application
    $ bin/console debug:router                  # api application
    $
    $ APP_NAME=admin bin/console debug:router   # admin application

Also you can configure the default `APP_NAME` environment variable in your `.env` file or in `bin/console` file.

### Running tests per application

    ├── tests/
    │   ├── Admin/
    │   │   └── AdminWebTestCase.php
    │   ├── Api/

The `tests` directory is pretty similar to the `src` directory, just update your `composer.json` to map each directory `tests/<Name>/` with its PSR-4 namespace:

    "autoload-dev": {
        "psr-4": {
            "Admin\\Tests\\": "tests/Admin/",
            "Api\\Tests\\": "tests/Api/"
        }
    },

Run `composer dump-autoload` to re-generate the autoload config.
    
Here, creates a `<Name>WebTestCase` class per application in order to execute all tests together.

### Production and vhosts

Set the environment variable `APP_NAME` for each vhost config in your production server and development machine if prefer:

    <VirtualHost admin.company.com:80>
        # ...
        
        SetEnv APP_NAME admin
        
        # ...
    </VirtualHost>

    <VirtualHost api.company.com:80>
        # ...
        
        SetEnv APP_NAME api
        
        # ...
    </VirtualHost>
 
### Adding more applications to the project

Follows these 3 steps to add a new vKernel/App to your Symfony 4 project:

 1. Add to `config`, `src` and `tests` directories a new folder with the `<name>` of the application and its content.
 2. Add to `config/<name>/` dir at least the `bundles.php` file.
 3. Add to `composer.json` autoload/autoload-dev sections the new PSR-4 namespaces for `src/<Name>/` and `tests/<Name>` directories and update the autoload config file.

Check the new application by running `bin/console about -k=<name>`.

Note: After install any new package that generates a new configuration file (into the common `config/packages` directory) make sure to move it to the correct sub-config directory if it is not intended to work for all applications.
Also you should update the `auto-scripts` section in `composer.json` to execute each command in the right application, and it's recommended to have a `"cache:clear -k <name>": "symfony-cmd"` for each application.

License
-------

This software is published under the [MIT License](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add command to create a new app easily

README.md, after:

# Symfony 4 skeleton with Virtual Kernel for multiple applications

### Name-based Virtual Kernel

The term "Virtual Kernel" refers to the practice of running more than one application (such as `api.example.com` and `admin.example.com`) on a single project repository. Virtual kernels are "name-based", meaning that you have multiple kernel names running on each application. The fact that they are running on the same physical project repository is not apparent to the end user.

In short, each kernel name corresponds to one application.

### Application-based Configuration

You need to replicate the structure of one application for `config`, `src`, `var` directories. It should look like this:

    ├── config/
    │   ├── admin/
    │   │   ├── packages/
    │   │   ├── bundles.php
    │   │   ├── routes.yaml
    │   │   ├── security.yaml
    │   │   └── services.yaml
    │   ├── api/
    │   ├── site/
    │   ├── packages/
    │   └── bundles.php
    ├── src/
    │   ├── Admin/
    │   ├── Api/
    │   ├── Site/
    │   └── VirtualKernel.php
    ├── var/
    │   ├── cache/
    │   │   ├── admin/
    │   │   │   ├── dev/
    │   │   │   └── prod/
    │   │   ├── api/
    │   │   └── site/
    │   └── logs/

Next, making use of the `Kernel::$name` property you can stand out the application to run and dedicated project files (`var/cache/<name>/<env>/*`):

 * `<name><Env>DebugProjectContainer*`
 * `<name><Env>DebugProjectContainerUrlGenerator*`
 * `<name><Env>DebugProjectContainerUrlMatcher*`
 
This will be the key of the performance as each application has by definition its own DI container file, routes and configuration.

### Keeping one entry point for all applications

    ├── public/
    │   └── index.php

Following the same filosofy of Symfony 4, whereas environment variables decides which development environment and debug mode should be used to run your application, you can to use a new `APP_NAME` environment variable to set the application to execute. 
For now, playing with your applications and PHP's built-in Web server prefixing the new application environment variable:

    $ APP_NAME=admin php -S 127.0.0.1:8000 -t public
    $ APP_NAME=api php -S 127.0.0.1:8001 -t public   

### Executing commands per application

    ├── bin/
    │   └── console.php

Use `--kernel`, `-k` option to run any command for one specific app:

    $ bin/console about -k api
    
Or if you prefer, use environment variables on CLI:

    $ export APP_NAME=api
    $ bin/console about                         # api application
    $ bin/console debug:router                  # api application
    $
    $ APP_NAME=admin bin/console debug:router   # admin application

Also you can configure the default `APP_NAME` environment variable in your `.env` file or in `bin/console` file.

### Running tests per application

    ├── tests/
    │   ├── Admin/
    │   │   └── AdminWebTestCase.php
    │   ├── Api/

The `tests` directory is pretty similar to the `src` directory, just update your `composer.json` to map each directory `tests/<Name>/` with its PSR-4 namespace:

    "autoload-dev": {
        "psr-4": {
            "Admin\\Tests\\": "tests/Admin/",
            "Api\\Tests\\": "tests/Api/"
        }
    },

Run `composer dump-autoload` to re-generate the autoload config.
    
Here, creates a `<Name>WebTestCase` class per application in order to execute all tests together.

### Production and vhosts

Set the environment variable `APP_NAME` for each vhost config in your production server and development machine if prefer:

    <VirtualHost admin.company.com:80>
        # ...
        
        SetEnv APP_NAME admin
        
        # ...
    </VirtualHost>

    <VirtualHost api.company.com:80>
        # ...
        
        SetEnv APP_NAME api
        
        # ...
    </VirtualHost>
 
### Adding more applications to the project

Run `bin/console create-app <name>` to create a new application.

Note: After install any new package that generates a new configuration file (into the common `config/packages` directory) make sure to move it to the correct sub-config directory if it is not intended to work for all applications.
Also you should update the `auto-scripts` section in `composer.json` to execute each command with the right kernel option, and it's also recommended to have a script `"cache:clear -k <name>": "symfony-cmd"` for each application.

License
-------

This software is published under the [MIT License](LICENSE)
